# Open-Source-Paper
CIT 225 Open Source paper
## What is Open Source?
  Open Source allows users to modify a work, use it in new ways, integrate the work in a different project, and create a new work based on the original. It is an exchange of ideas that promotes creative, scientific, and technological advancement. Although, open source is mostly being used in the software industry, it is often used in other industries in many different ways. Open source has provided us many of the technologies we use today and without it technology would not be at the point it is at. It has contributed immensely to the reason technology has advanced at an exponential rate. As open source comes more popular who knows what technological advancements will be made. 
## Why is it *important*?
It allows for innovation through collaboration. Programmers can work together on a project from anywhere in the world. They can study the software and make improvements to it. This is the reason technology has advanced so much in the last decade. Because of this new booming movement big tech companies like Facebook and Google are starting to open up proprietary innovations to the open source community. This makes for a better experience for all users by making the internet as whole smoother.
## The history of Open Source
### Early history
In the 50s and 60s almost all software was created by academic and corporate researchers working in collaboration. Universities were early adopters of computing technologies. They openly shared modifications to keep with academic principles of sharing knowledge. This lead to organizations being created to support sharing. In the late 60s  operating systems became more complex and costly for corporations to produce. By the late 70s and early 80s to increase revenues, corporations no longer released source code and only released the machine code which was compiled from the source code.
### The Free Software Movement
In 1983, Richard Stallman launched the GNU Project. He wrote a software operating system that people could access its source code. HE then released his GNU Manifesto in in 1985. The inspiration for free software movement likely derived from a disagreement between Stallman and Symbolics, Inc. over MIT’s access to updates Symbolics made to its Lisp machine, which had been based on MIT code. That same year he founded the Free Software Foundation. He invented copyleft to preserve the free status of a work subject to copyright.
### Linux Kernel
In 1991, Linus Torvalds created the Linux Kernel as a freely modifiable source code. Before the Linux Kernel there was not yet a complete free software operating system. It was the missing piece for the unfinished GNU Project to be a complete free software operating system. Since 1996 Linux kernel has included proprietary licensed components so it is no longer an entirely free software. 
### Adoption of the term Open Source
In an attempt to bring free software principles to the commercial-software industry, Eric S. Raymond and others created the label “Open Source”. They wanted to rebrand free software movement to show the potential of sharing of source code could have for businesses. Even Richard Stallman thought about adopting the term but later changed his mind. By the end of the 90s open source had gained a lot of popularity in the software industry.
